this is my wine girl out at lei bushwa
today with Jacob Holman winemaker for
Labour schwa it's a thank goodness Jacob
it's a warm and toasty here in the lab
because it's cold out there
yeah so tell us what we're gonna do
today well last time you were here we
did blending trials which was took the
different varieties and you know came up
with our combination for a semi dry
white wine
so we're just about to bottle that wine
and they were gonna do what's called a
finding trial so what we do here is
every one that we make you set up this
final trial on which is a different
additives that may help soften the line
up if the wine was a little oxidized it
might clean up the aroma on reds if it
was over oked you can use different find
agents to kind of pull some of it okay
so what we're doing now is the semi grab
white that we blended and I'm gonna use
three fine agents today I'm gonna use a
PvP P which is a derivative it's kind of
like what they use to make Barbie dolls
it's a plastic I'm gonna use caseinate
which is a milk derivative and I'm gonna
use gelatin which is of course you know
the one thing that's important to note
that you know a lot of people will ask
if you know the gelatin is actually in
the wine or if the casting it's actually
in the wine so say you're lactose
intolerant or something these fighting
agents don't actually go into solution
they bind up with with phenomics that
are in the wine and then drop to the
bottom of the tank so they're not
actually in the product um so normally
what we will do is a kind of a blanket
addition I have seven wines here they're
all the same right now we'll have we'll
leave one of them
playing he's called our control so there
would be no fining agent added to this
one and then the others we'll all get a
little bit of something or other so
usually what I do is a lower dose of one
and then a higher dose of one a lower
dose of the next agent and hired us the
next agent and then the same goes on
went back and you've labeled these
carefully yeah each beaker is labeled
with a letter and then that way when I
taste them the same thing is the
blending trial I'll be able to they'll
be I'll be blind just like everybody
else that's on the tasting panel right
so that way I know that you represents a
low dose of PvP P and that way when we
when we hash it out and we decide which
one's the best one then we'll come back
to that and go oh we liked you now
oftentimes it's not that cut and dry
normally we'll go through and kind of
like well we like this one we like this
one or we may like the aroma on you and
when they like the mouthfeel on e so
this is the initial trial it could be
that I've set up two or three more of
these you know with different
combinations of fining agents or
different levels you know so say we like
the low dose of PvP like the high dose
of caseinate I'm gonna make a
combination of those I may increase the
level of or decrease the level of
caseinate you know just a kind of
combination at those those are the two
agents this is a PvP P and this is
caseinate and then I've got my gelatin
over here pre-mixed in this little
container here such so what's going on
here is each one of these represents the
tank and of course it's not going to be
exactly the same we're just trying to
get a rough idea so I'm gonna add an
agent to each one of these tanks and
then you know again we're gonna let them
sit overnight we'll taste it more
afternoon
go back to the drawing board or we'll go
on but even a control it's not very
scientific way to add but I'm gonna go
ahead and stir the control up just so it
all that's just so everything gets
treated the same so this is I want I'm
gonna sloshing him just as much I'm
gonna slosh the others just in case
there was some sort of reaction with the
stirring as far as like oxido oxidizing
or something alright so the first one
we're gonna do is 1/2 pound per thousand
gallons of pppp and that's gonna
translate to my chart here it's a 5%
solution it's gonna translate 2.3
milliliters in this 250 milliliter flask
the next one is a 2-pound without and
this is the bigger addition
and now we're adding this is the Caston
a low dose and you can see how it reacts
different than the PvP did see how its
mm-hmm got those little strands in there
yeah definitely so that's what I mean by
when it hits the line that actually
doesn't go into solution it binds up and
falls to the bottom McKesson it's there
usually the best example of that and
then the filter catches it is that
correct and will filter all that out go
through a final filtration
now when I'm setting these trials up
like I said this one here is a pretty
generic trial but I you know like like
you said I have spent some time with
these wines already so if I have one
that's particularly harsh and phenolics
then I will dip that will change my
doses based on that you kind of know the
wines personalities by now don't you
yeah and that's what we're this is the
time of year we really spend any time
doing that is uh you know we've gone
through them tasted them as their own
varietals and kind of placed them and
you know where they're gonna end up
and this again that you're adding is
this is the gelatin the gelatin alright
and now and now only wait I said
tomorrow we have a big tasty day so this
is this firing trial is just one of the
things that we're tasting
we're also tasting a couple of blending
trials and we're gonna go through some
of our older Reds we're gonna age longer
and/or blend up now so the wines will
now we wait
and then you'll taste tomorrow yeah this
is mo wine girl out at Labor Schwab with
winemaker a Jacob Holman thanks for your
time today Jacob no problem